README.md, before:

# awesome

"Tendermint is awesome. The future is now." - Jae Kwon, Tendermint: Consensus without Mining

## Essential links

- [Source code](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/)
- [Docs](https://tendermint.com/docs/)
- [Quick start](https://tendermint.com/docs/introduction/quick-start.html)
- [RPC reference](https://tendermint.com/rpc/)
- [Ecosystem](https://tendermint.com/ecosystem) Frameworks built on top of Tendermint

## Papers (and one thesis)

- [Tendermint: Consensus without Mining](https://cdn.relayto.com/media/files/LPgoWO18TCeMIggJVakt_tendermint.pdf) The original whitepaper
- [The latest gossip on BFT consensus](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.04938)
- [Tendermint: Byzantine Fault Tolerance in the Age of Blockchains](https://allquantor.at/blockchainbib/pdf/buchman2016tendermint.pdf) Ethan Buchman's thesis
- [Dissecting Tendermint](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.09858)
- [Correctness and Fairness of Tendermint-core Blockchains](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08429) Analysis of Tendermint proposer selection algorithm (p.s. algorithm was fixed and formally verified for the simpliest case by Christopher Goes https://github.com/cwgoes/tm-proposer-idris)

## Tutorials

- [Writing a built-in Tendermint Core app in Go](https://blog.cosmos.network/writing-a-built-in-tendermint-core-app-in-go-a52f3a35ec09)
- [Tendermint CAS demo](https://github.com/6thc/tendermint-cas-demo)

## Videos

- [Tendermint x Tezos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7L01IxKlVu0) Tendermint consensus explained
- [A Brief History of Distributed State](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocLp8AL8acQ)
- [Blockchain Smart Contracts in Any Language with Tendermint TMSP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9krAQzN6tbc) A bit outdated, but you have to watch to see Ethan Buchman aka Tanuki rapping!
- [Dev sessions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBZjecfjeIk&list=PLdQIb0qr3pnBbG5ZG-0gr3zM86_s8Rpqv) Each presentation covers a different topic related to Tendermint

## Presentations

- [CodeChain Consensus. BFT: Tendermint](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k0CbJQBHoMJkuOXdAKHFw9dcaXES_3dFYnCp1I1bm2M/edit) Explains why PoLC is needed with step-by-step visualizations

## Blogs and other reading links

- [Tendermint Explained Bringing BFT-based PoS to the Public Blockchain Domain](https://blog.cosmos.network/tendermint-explained-bringing-bft-based-pos-to-the-public-blockchain-domain-f22e274a0fdb)
- [Tendermint in a Nutshell](https://blog.cosmos.network/tendermint-in-a-nutshell-39d9f7f66ad7)
- [Consensus Compare: Casper vs. Tendermint](https://blog.cosmos.network/consensus-compare-casper-vs-tendermint-6df154ad56ae)
- [Consensus Compare: Tendermint BFT vs. EOS dPoS](https://blog.cosmos.network/consensus-compare-tendermint-bft-vs-eos-dpos-46c5bca7204b)
- [List of projects in Cosmos & Tendermint Ecosystem](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/list-of-projects-in-cosmos-tendermint-ecosystem/243)
- [The Most Comprehensive Guide to Tendermint Core](https://blockgeeks.com/guides/ultimate-guide-tendermint/)

## Language bundles

### Golang bundle

- [ABCI server](https://godoc.org/github.com/tendermint/tendermint/abci/server)
- [Light client](https://godoc.org/github.com/tendermint/tendermint/lite)
- [RPC client](https://godoc.org/github.com/tendermint/tendermint/rpc/client)
- [Amino](https://github.com/tendermint/go-amino)

### Javascript bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/tendermint/js-abci)
- [Light client](https://github.com/nomic-io/js-tendermint)
- [RPC client](https://github.com/nomic-io/js-tendermint)
- [Amino](https://github.com/cybercongress/js-amino)

Bonus: check out [Lotion](https://github.com/nomic-io/lotion)

### Java bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/jTendermint/jabci)
- [Example: chat](https://github.com/wolfposd/TMChat)

### Python bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/davebryson/py-abci)

### Rust bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/tendermint/rust-abci)
- [Amino](https://github.com/tendermint/amino_rs)

## Non-English resources

- [Tendermint 轻松达成共识](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c6eoPPunVVA)

## Talk to us

- [Chat](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#tendermint:matrix.org)
- [Forum](https://forum.cosmos.network/c/tendermint)
- [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/tendermint)

Commit message:

add ecosystem section (#3)
* add ecosystem section

* move ecosystem under lang bundles

README.md, after:

# awesome

"Tendermint is awesome. The future is now." - Jae Kwon, Tendermint: Consensus without Mining

## Essential links

- [Source code](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/)
- [Docs](https://tendermint.com/docs/)
- [Quick start](https://tendermint.com/docs/introduction/quick-start.html)
- [RPC reference](https://tendermint.com/rpc/)
- [Ecosystem](https://tendermint.com/ecosystem) Frameworks built on top of Tendermint

## Papers (and one thesis)

- [Tendermint: Consensus without Mining](https://cdn.relayto.com/media/files/LPgoWO18TCeMIggJVakt_tendermint.pdf) The original whitepaper
- [The latest gossip on BFT consensus](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.04938)
- [Tendermint: Byzantine Fault Tolerance in the Age of Blockchains](https://allquantor.at/blockchainbib/pdf/buchman2016tendermint.pdf) Ethan Buchman's thesis
- [Dissecting Tendermint](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.09858)
- [Correctness and Fairness of Tendermint-core Blockchains](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08429) Analysis of Tendermint proposer selection algorithm (p.s. algorithm was fixed and formally verified for the simpliest case by Christopher Goes https://github.com/cwgoes/tm-proposer-idris)

## Tutorials

- [Writing a built-in Tendermint Core app in Go](https://blog.cosmos.network/writing-a-built-in-tendermint-core-app-in-go-a52f3a35ec09)
- [Tendermint CAS demo](https://github.com/6thc/tendermint-cas-demo)

## Videos

- [Tendermint x Tezos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7L01IxKlVu0) Tendermint consensus explained
- [A Brief History of Distributed State](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocLp8AL8acQ)
- [Blockchain Smart Contracts in Any Language with Tendermint TMSP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9krAQzN6tbc) A bit outdated, but you have to watch to see Ethan Buchman aka Tanuki rapping!
- [Dev sessions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBZjecfjeIk&list=PLdQIb0qr3pnBbG5ZG-0gr3zM86_s8Rpqv) Each presentation covers a different topic related to Tendermint

## Presentations

- [CodeChain Consensus. BFT: Tendermint](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k0CbJQBHoMJkuOXdAKHFw9dcaXES_3dFYnCp1I1bm2M/edit) Explains why PoLC is needed with step-by-step visualizations

## Blogs and other reading links

- [Tendermint Explained Bringing BFT-based PoS to the Public Blockchain Domain](https://blog.cosmos.network/tendermint-explained-bringing-bft-based-pos-to-the-public-blockchain-domain-f22e274a0fdb)
- [Tendermint in a Nutshell](https://blog.cosmos.network/tendermint-in-a-nutshell-39d9f7f66ad7)
- [Consensus Compare: Casper vs. Tendermint](https://blog.cosmos.network/consensus-compare-casper-vs-tendermint-6df154ad56ae)
- [Consensus Compare: Tendermint BFT vs. EOS dPoS](https://blog.cosmos.network/consensus-compare-tendermint-bft-vs-eos-dpos-46c5bca7204b)
- [List of projects in Cosmos & Tendermint Ecosystem](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/list-of-projects-in-cosmos-tendermint-ecosystem/243)
- [The Most Comprehensive Guide to Tendermint Core](https://blockgeeks.com/guides/ultimate-guide-tendermint/)

## Language bundles

### Golang bundle

- [ABCI server](https://godoc.org/github.com/tendermint/tendermint/abci/server)
- [Light client](https://godoc.org/github.com/tendermint/tendermint/lite)
- [RPC client](https://godoc.org/github.com/tendermint/tendermint/rpc/client)
- [Amino](https://github.com/tendermint/go-amino)

### Javascript bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/tendermint/js-abci)
- [Light client](https://github.com/nomic-io/js-tendermint)
- [RPC client](https://github.com/nomic-io/js-tendermint)
- [Amino](https://github.com/cybercongress/js-amino)

Bonus: check out [Lotion](https://github.com/nomic-io/lotion)

### Java bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/jTendermint/jabci)
- [Example: chat](https://github.com/wolfposd/TMChat)

### Python bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/davebryson/py-abci)

### Rust bundle

- [ABCI server](https://github.com/tendermint/rust-abci)
- [Amino](https://github.com/tendermint/amino_rs)

## Non-English resources

- [Tendermint 轻松达成共识](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c6eoPPunVVA)

## Ecosystem

Projects that are built using Tendermint

- Cosmos Hub [Github](https://github.com/cosmos/gaia)
- Cosmos SDK [Github](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk)

## Talk to us

- [Chat](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#tendermint:matrix.org)
- [Forum](https://forum.cosmos.network/c/tendermint)
- [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/tendermint)
